Hello everyone! Let's create a basic project. We have an
epic game launcher open . Go to the unreal engine category on the left.
Next, go to the library tab and launch the version of the engine that interests us.
The project creation assistant has opened. On the first screen, we need to select a project category.
Unreal can be used for more than just game development. We choose the games category.
On the next screen, we can select a template for the project. Templates are mini projects with ready-made
mechanics. They are very useful for teaching. You can see how some things
are implemented . We create an empty project - blank. The third screen contains the project settings. In the first
setup, we define whether the project will be blueprint or code-behind. We select the C ++ option. Next, we determine
whether we are developing for the desktop or for mobile platforms. We leave desktop. The next option
is responsible for performance optimization. We also do not change it. Next, you can add some
initial content. These are different geometries and materials. We will not add content, if you
wish, you can do this later. The last option activates ray tracing, we do not touch it either, we
leave it off by default. At the bottom, select the directory where we want to create the project and the
name of the project. We name our project GeometrySandbox and click on the create project button.
The Unreal Editor has opened. In this lesson, we will take a very brief look at its main functionality.
For those who are absolute beginners, I recommend watching the basics tutorials from the official
Unreal Engine youtube channel. So, we have editor. Centered in the viewport - the 3d scene of our
current level. We can move around the scene using the arrows on the keyboard and also rotate the
camera using the mouse. This level was created automatically when the project was loaded
and there are already some objects on the scene. We can watch them in the world outliner - a window that
contains a list of all objects from the scene. By clicking on objects in the scene, we can
select them. Additional elements are drawn at the selected object,
which are called gizmo. These are the arrows of the coordinate system, when we press the wer keys on the keyboard,
we can change the editing mode. There are three of them: this is the position in space, rotation along the
axes and also scale - changing the size of the object. Move on. When we select an object on the stage,
the properties of this object are shown in a window called details. Objects of different classes
have different properties and with the help of this details panel we can edit the properties of the object,
for example, the same transformation, position in the world can be set using input fields. Next
to the details panel there is another window called world settings, with the help of this window
you can configure the main classes of the current level
(we will get acquainted with all the classes of the engine in this course)
and also other settings that are not of interest to us now. At the bottom we have a window
called the content browser. The content browser contains the assets available to us.
These can be blueprints, materials, sounds, character models, and so on. That is, the bricks
from which we will create our game. Right-click in the content browser. A special menu
opens , with which you can create the type of asset we are interested in. Drag & drop we can
add the asset we created to our scene, or later create it dynamically.
In the content browser, in the lower right corner there is a button called view options. Here we can,
for example, change the size of the thumbnails, make different folders with the engine content available,
and, for example, customize the appearance of the browser content. You can change the viewtype.
Try list or columns. I prefer to use tiles type. On the left there is a window
called place actors - this is a quick access panel to the most frequently used objects.
The base Unreal type that can be added to the scene is called ACTOR.
For example, we can add geometry: cube, sphere.
Change their position in space, change scale. There is a lights tab,
which contains the main lights. We can change some properties in the details
panel , for example, brightness, color. All objects in place actors are grouped into categories
depending on their functionality. If suddenly you have any window closed, or you closed it
by negligence. Let's close all windows, for example.
In the main menu there is a window item, in which we can find all the windows we closed. Details windows, for example, can have multiple openings.
The same can be done with content browsers. Sometimes this is convenient when
assets are grouped into directories and you need to work in different directories, especially
when you have multiple monitors. At the top is a panel called the toolbar,
which also contains various controls: saving, source code management.
There is a menu called modes, with the help of it, for example, you can edit
landscapes and vegetation. There is also a link to the marketplace - an asset store,
additional settings, a compile button that allows you to compile the source code of our game
without restarting the editor, the play button - it starts the current game level.You
can exit the game mode by pressing escape, or by pressing the stop button.
We can also launch the game in a separate window.
There are also some controls on top of the viewport.
On the right, the first are the buttons that allow you to switch the types of transformation:
movement, rotation and scale.
The unit of 3d space in an unreal engine is one unit.
One physical unit is equal to one centimeter.
When you move the cube, you will notice that its coordinates change by 10 units. We
can change this value. Click on the triangle
next to the mesh and set the snap size to one.
Now, when we drag the arrows, our cube moves one unit. The same can be
done with rotation and scale. The next button allows you to adjust the speed of the camera. If we
work with large maps, then it is quite convenient to be able to quickly move
through the level. Also, if you are lost at the level, you can select any of the objects in the world outliner
and press F. This action will move you to the selected object, to remove
all non-game elements from the scene, you can press the G key on the keyboard. The mode is called
game mode and to return the items back, just press G again. There are a lot of hot keys
, not all of them will be useful to you. If you press the End key on the keyboard with the selected object
, then the position of the object in the world will change, as if it fell on the object below it.
On the left side of the viewport there are other settings. A button labeled perspective allows us to change the
projections in which we see the world, for example, we can select a projection from the top by clicking on top in the menu -
this is useful when we need to somehow align objects relative to each other.
This can be done fairly accurately on the grid. We can switch to the left view and so on.
The next setting is view mode. You can see how the scene is rendered without light,
turn on the geometry separately, or, for example, just light.
Clicking on the triangle opens an additional menu.
For example, we can select show fps in it.
This setting allows you to display the number of frames per second.
There will be practically no code in blueprints in this course. If you're unfamiliar with blueprints, that's
okay. We will use them rather in terms of
setting the various parameters that we will create in C ++.
In the course we will also use two preferences windows: the
first of them is located in the menu-> edit -> editor preferences.
This is where editor settings are located. We can change the colors of the interface.
View and configure hotkeys for various actions in the editor.
As we can see, the list for hot keys is very long.
The second settings window is called project settings.
These settings relate to our project, to the game.
They are also grouped by category. Let's make our first setting. The scene, the
level that opened when the project was created, is not saved. Click on the save current button.
We name our level sandbox map. Click the save button on the right. An asset with a level was created. There can be as many
levels in our game as we want. So that next time the unreal
editor opens with this particular level, we need to specify this in the settings. Go to
the maps & modes category and select sanboxmap in the editor startup map field in the combobox. Now our
map will open when we run editor. The second field is called the game default map.
It is not necessary for us to change this setting in this section. Game default map defines the map
that will be launched in the standalone game. In general, that's all. This is a very quick overview of
editor. We will consider the rest as necessary, in any incomprehensible situation, I
recommend opening the documentation from the Unreal website. All the details are described in sufficient detail there.
When the project was created, a Visual Studio solution was generated, and editor was
launched separately. Debugger visual studio is not attached to the Unreal Engine editor.
One way to fix this is to simply close the editor.
and click on the local windows debugger button. But there is also another way. From the debug menu, select the
attach to process option. Search for editor.
The process is called UE4Editor.exe and click on attach.
As a result, the debugger visualstudio will connect to the Unreal Editor.
Or, when using the first method, just close editor
and click on local windows debugger.
Unreal Editor starts launching.